---
permalink: /works_cited/
title: "Works Cited"
---

Bevilacqua, Maria Cecilia, et al. “The Universal Newborn Hearing Screening in Brazil: From Identification to Intervention.” International Journal of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology, vol. 74, no. 5, May 2010, pp. 510–515., doi:10.1016/j.ijporl.2010.02.009. 
	This is an essay from an academic journal about Otorhinolaryngology, which is the study of diseases of the ear, nose, and throat. In this essay, it discusses a hearing screening in Brazil for newborns and how viable it was financially. The essay is very detailed about the process and background of the screening, as is expected from an academic essay, but the key point pertaining to my project is that the research proved to be viable and promising which meant that the children with hearing loss were subjected to methods such as hearing aids and cochlear implants. This goes against my argument because I’m advocating for increased awareness of Deaf culture while these methods typically exclude the individual from Deaf culture as well as the hearing world. It is important to note that this topic is complex and controversial, and it deserves a great amount of thought and context. An additional way this essay relates to my project is that the evaluation of costs of the newborn screening process was proposed by the National Center for Hearing Assessment and Management of Utah State University.
Holcomb, Thomas K. Introduction to American Deaf Culture. Oxford Univ. Press, 2013.
	This book, written by Deaf author Thomas K. Holcomb, is a fantastic exploration of American Deaf culture and all it has to offer. The main focus of the book is how Deaf culture fits the definition of culture by having its own unique language, art, literature, customs, and people. He covers topics including  how American and Deaf culture contrast, how Deaf people feel about being called disabled, how Deaf art and literature reflect a unique perspective, and how Deaf culture has evolved over centuries of hardship due to optimistic Deaf individuals. Holcomb also doesn’t stray away from covering controversial and complex topics such as discrimination within the Deaf community; eugenics, hearing aids, and cochlear implants; and the necessity of hearing people’s assistance to build bridges between the Deaf and hearing worlds. This book contributes to my project by being a large source of my knowledge of Deaf culture, and by showcasing Deaf culture in multiple different perspectives. This book also includes several examples of Deaf art and poetry, and several anecdotes that demonstrate the unique existence of Deaf culture.
Jay, Michelle, and Jill Baylor. “The Deaf Community and How You Can Get Involved: START ASL.” Start ASL | Learn American Sign Language with Our Complete 3-Level Course!, Start ASL, 15 Feb. 2021, www.startasl.com/deaf-community/. 
This article is from an online ASL course website with a variety of courses and resources. The founder of Start ASL, Michelle Jay, is the author of the first half of the article, and the other half is a student paper written by a Start ASL student named Jill Baylor. The article itself is about the Deaf community and what Deaf identity means within the Deaf community. It covers the several different levels of being Deaf and being involved in the Deaf community which can be a confusing topic to those unfamiliar with the different classifications. This article ties in nicely with my project by defining what it means exactly to be a part of the Deaf community, as well as how to become more involved with the community. I’ll be able to use this information to clarify what the Deaf community is, and how those looking to become part of the Deaf community should move forward.
Lee, Chongmin. “Deafness and Cochlear Implants: A Deaf Scholar’s Perspective.” Journal of Child Neurology, vol. 27, no. 6, 24 Apr. 2012, pp. 821–823., doi:10.1177/0883073812441248. 
	In this academic article, a Deaf scholar, Dr. Chongmin Lee, gives an outline of the ethical and practical problems with cochlear implants. He specifically goes into depth about different views on deafness, the nature and notion of deafness, and the purpose of Deaf education. Lee’s main argument isn’t necessarily that cochlear implants themselves are bad, but that they tend to not fix the whole problem, and that they isolate implanted individuals from the Deaf community. His perspective as a Deaf individual gives the article credibility, and should make readers consider the Deaf perspective of cochlear implants. This article is very helpful toward my project as a credible and academic source that also advocates for awareness of Deafness. Overall, this article serves as an excellent source of perspective and reasoning towards the matter of cochlear implants, and more importantly, the nature of Deafness.
Press, Associated. “USU Settles Suit by Deaf Students.” Deseret News, Deseret News, 5 June 2007, www.deseret.com/2007/6/5/20022702/usu-settles-suit-by-deaf-students. 
In this article from Deseret News, the details are given of a time Deaf students sued Utah State University. In May of 2006 a group of past and current USU students filed a lawsuit under the pretense that the university was violating the Americans with Disabilities Act by not providing a sufficient number of interpreters and note takers for the Deaf students. The article continues to elaborate on the necessity for interpreters in providing an equal field of opportunity to students who are deaf or hard of hearing, and how it is expected due to USU having a well known education program for teachers of deaf students. The lawsuit was settled in April of 2007 with the university promising to increase the number of full-time interpreters and to keep the Deaf students better informed of any interpretation issues. This article relates to my project by providing evidence of the relationship between Deaf students and USU, and how they deserve to be given the same opportunities and inclusion as other students. It also shows the capability of Deaf students as well as the necessity of services for Deaf students to allow them to function their best in the hearing world.
The National Center for Hearing Assessment and Management, Utah State University, www.infanthearing.org/legislation/. Accessed 17 Nov. 2021.
This website is made by the National Technical Resource Center, and it is specifically discussing the Early Hearing Detection and Intervention or EHDI legislation. In the text it goes over the progression of newborn hearing screening programs over the years and the statistics about states and legislation concerning these screenings. This source strongly supports hearing screening and hearing intervention at an early age such as hearing aids. This source relates to my project because it is run by a research center here on USU campus, and because it deals with hearing screening and encouraging intervention. This is a controversial and complex topic, but this source does make some good points concerning the ethics and morals behind providing intervention to infants with hearing loss. This source acts as a counterargument to my project, and thus I must keep this source in consideration while making my project. I still advocate that people should be more aware of Deaf culture and the belonging that comes from being a full part of it.
